---
layout: post
title:  "VR has great potential for mindfulness"
---

<html>
  <head>

    <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8">
  </head>
  <body>
    <p>VR has great potential for mindfulness, because of its inherent
      ability to control the environment and create scenarios to help
      break the illusion of the Self.</p>
    <p><b>Mindfulness: what it is not<br>
      </b></p>
    <p>The purpose of mindfulness meditation isn't to be a stress ball
      or a focus-improving exercise. It's not even really meant to be a
      way of improving your mental well being. All of those happen to be
      side-effects of the practice.</p>
    <p>It's <i>definitely</i> not trying to avoid having thoughts. It
      does not necessarily have to be done while sitting with your eyes
      closed. Meditation is not any particular practice, rather it is a
      family of practices from many cultures throughout the world that
      involve understanding the nature of consciousness.</p>
    <p><b>The goal of meditation</b></p>
    <p>An important goal of several mindfulness practices is to be
      understand the true nature of consciousness, that is, to recognise
      what your mind is really like, and what you really are. And yes,
      you are most probably wrong about what you think your mind is
      like. Unravelling the falsehoods and illusory beliefs we hold
      about our mind and identity is why the practice is valuable.</p>
    <p>"What you just said reeks of crackpoteering."</p>
    <p>I understand. I hate crackpots and scammy sciences a lot too. At
      the moment, we lack effective vocabulary to describe the effects
      of meditation, but I shall try to spell out some practicalities
      with the practice. It's about recognising that your thoughts and
      experiences do not actually come from you, rather they come and go
      from this void, as a matter of experience. Those thoughts are not
      You. Similarly the physical sensations of sound, touch, pain,
      sight are also not really You, they are just sensations in this
      vast open space of your consciousness.</p>
    <p>In fact everything that you see, think, feel and live through is
      not You, or alternatively, you can think of all of it as contained
      in a singular awareness. This is my understanding of what is
      called non-duality, ie, recognising there is no difference between
      You and Everything else. As a matter of experience, they are both
      the same. To reach this state of seeing what you are for real
      takes practice, especially if you want to maintain this state of
      non-duality for long. A side effect of this state is it comes with
      a sense of well being and calmness, as well as a gives you
      optionality with thoughts. You can always recognise and let go of
      negative thoughts, and keep the ones you like (while not leaving
      the non-dual state).</p>
    <p>It also happens to be difficult to achieve, and requires regular
      practice.</p>
    <p><b>This is where VR can really help</b></p>
    <p>VR is great at changing your environment. The environment tends
      to play an important role in many meditation practices. I can
      imagine when creatively applied, VR can seamlessly switch from a
      "transparent" real world feed to virtual worlds with different
      characteristics to explore the various features of awareness and
      then putting them together. It also seems very compatible with <a
        moz-do-not-send="true"
        href="https://headless.org/experiments-home.htm">Douglas
        Harding's "headless" experiments</a>. In general, I see
      potential in VR to pull a person away from the feeling of
      identifying herself with her thoughts, and recognising the
      non-duality of consciousness. I want to see enthusiasts, not
      academics, tinker with various ideas and out of the box thinking.
      Please no "let's make a nature scenery with waterfall and birds
      chirping" type of thing. That is not what meditation is.<br>
    </p>
  </body>
</html>