---
layout: post
title:  "a moment so absurd I had to pinch myself"
---

<div dir="ltr"><div id="gmail-:1ea" class="gmail-a3s gmail-aiL"><div dir="ltr">Real life is stranger 
than fiction. If this did not happen to me, I would have written off 
this story as an unrealistic fever dream.<br><br>I started an open 
source club in my second year of college. I was barely out of my 
freshman year, and starting an initiative like this was way out of my 
comfort zone. For the first few months, I managed everything. Organising
 and conducting all the meetups, moderating the Slack channel, where all
 communications took place, managing social media (poorly), and dealing 
with an awfully uptight and clueless college bureaucracy.<br><br>More 
people were joining and participating in the club as I was burning out. 
So naturally, that was my call to assemble a core team to help me with 
the administrative stuff.<br><br>We used to have this system in place to
 be able to join Slack channel—make a Pull Request to our GitHub 
repository to get your name in our members list and introduce yourselves
 in the document. The reasoning behind this system is it raises the 
barrier of entry just high enough to prevent &quot;freeloaders&quot; to join but 
not contribute or engage in any way. And anyone who would do this would 
already get a small picture of how Open Source contributions work! We 
had an extremely detailed tutorial to do this, almost down to 
keystrokes, to make it super easy to those new to Open Source.<br><br>Naturally,
 to apply to be a part of the new core team, you had to send me a 
message in that Slack channel. Just to make it super clear, I conducted a
 meetup (with the help of a few friends) to show how to get the link to 
the Slack channel and all the requirements to apply. I, through the club
 account, sent a highly detailed email to all those who filled out the 
application form with the same instructions.<br><br>A strange thing I 
noticed in this process is how some people who never previously 
participated or showed any interest in the club (or Open Source) 
suddenly wanted to be on the core team. I suppose it was because it 
would look nice to put on their résumés? It never made much sense to me 
because... it&#39;s just a random new student club that anyone could have 
started.<br><br>There was one lad in that category who took it way too 
far. I&#39;ll call him Swapnil. Swapnil skipped all the detailed 
instructions to get into Slack in my email. He decided to instead reply 
to it with a cover letter for why I should have him in the core team. It
 was not a great letter. Rife with punctuation and spelling errors, he 
told me how he is a perfect fit for the marketing and campaigning role 
(there was no such role), and that he created two instagram pages &#39;which
 i call them two non technical startups&#39;. He also said he&#39;s a great fit 
because he has his &#39;own vision for this club to make it exceed its own 
goals by having great principles and execution of plans&#39;.<br><br>I must 
remind you, me from that period was a fatigued soul juggling a lot of 
hats and not being particularly adept at any of them. My patience was
 eroding like cheap old shoes. I replied to him, urging him to read the 
email carefully again, and contacting my handle on Slack to apply. Since
 it was also the last date to apply, I decided to extend it for him. 
Despite the unfavourable impression, I decided to give him an 
opportunity to redeem himself.<br><br>I then saw a message on my phone 
from Swapnil. He felt it was a good idea to track down my number through
 a large group chat we had in common and send me a screenshot of the 
email that he sent me. And just so that I get the message he added that 
he wanted to be a part of the core team. I suppressed the flames in my 
soul and told him, as compassionately as I could muster, that he managed
 to apply for this role in all the places except the one place he had 
to. I also asked him to be patient, as I went through all the other 
applications. The conversation continued (@vuhh was my Slack handle):<br><br>Swapnil: So I need to send my application to @vuhh?<br>Me: Yes.<br>Swapnil: It&#39;s giving an error when I mention @vuhh. It doesn&#39;t exist it seems.<br><br>I
 thought, maybe this is a genuine glitch. I asked him to show it. He 
left that message on read. I figured he probably gave up, and I could 
forget about this whole matter. Or so I thought.<br><br>Turns out he 
contacted my flatmate at the time. My flatmate was in his class. He 
needed help to set up a GitHub account. Not only was he not in the Slack
 workspace at all, he never even had a GitHub account needed to add his 
name to our repository! Where was he mentioning @vuhh?! My flatmate told
 me how remarkably incompetent he was. The reason he could not create a 
GitHub account was because the registration form told him that his 
username of choice was already taken by someone else. He was not able to
 recover from that setback.<br><br>The next day, I received a forwarded 
message from Swapnil, promoting one of his non-technical startups. He 
started flexing to me about how he managed to grow their WhatsApp group 
of 70 people to over 110. I was in a poor mood that day, and the last 
thing I wanted was more invasive messages from this buffoon. I sent him a
 long message about how he will absolutely not make it to the core team,
 because of his refusal to follow clearly laid out instructions. It 
would not be fair to the other applicants who respected the deadlines 
and systems I set up to still have him for consideration.<br><br><div>He replied, &quot;yeah bro, you are right, it&#39;s not fair. But,&quot;</div><div><br></div><div>But.</div><div><br></div><div>Nassim Taleb had an aphorism about Buts. <span>Everything before </span><span>the</span><span> But</span><span> is meant to be ignored by </span><span>the</span><span> speaker; and everything </span><span>after</span><span> </span><span>the</span><span> But</span><span> should be ignored by </span><span>the</span><span> listener.</span></div><div><span><br></span></div><div><span>In
 this case however, I could not ignore what he sent after the But. The 
first picture was a sickly woman in a hospital bed, on a ventilator. The
 second was a steel dish, in the same environment, containing what I 
could only recognize as &quot;meat&quot;. There were two pieces of meat, one small
 and one big, presumably something that used to be in that poor woman. I
 did not ask which bit of which organ it was. I was too shocked.</span></div><div><span><br></span></div><div><span>These
 are the reasons why I did not open the GitHub account, said Swapnil. I 
am fine if you don&#39;t include me in the core team. But let me be your 
advisor, and give you my approach for you guys to implement. And almost 
remembering that he sent those pictures, he referred back to them, 
saying that&#39;s his aunt.<br></span></div><div><span><br></span></div><div><span>I blocked him.</span></div></div></div></div>
