---
layout: post
title:  "The attitudes of Indian Universities"
---
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

<div dir=3D"ltr"><div>I have a hypothesis that most universities and colleg=
es are merely vessels for awarding degrees, and providing traditional caree=
rs for people. Essentially, vocational schools, but pretentious. They do no=
t believe in the original idea of universities, which is a community of sch=
olars and teachers, that explore and learn, and make the world better with =
the sparks of innovation that result.</div><div><br></div><div>I may, of co=
urse, be off the mark, but to test my hypothesis, I&#39;m using a simple pr=
inciple: what do universities or colleges have to say about themselves? It =
may not be accurate, but it&#39;s a simple litmus test. So the heuristic is=
 going to be the university&#39;s official mission statement. If there is n=
o mission statement, I shall see what they say in the &quot;about&quot; pag=
e on their website. So here goes.</div><div><br></div><div>(note: I am only=
 targeting engineering institutions for now)<br></div><div><br></div><div>L=
et&#39;s begin with my own university, PES University, from their about pag=
e:</div><blockquote class=3D"gmail_quote" style=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex=
;border-left:1px solid rgb(204,204,204);padding-left:1ex"><div><div class=
=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-pbf-column gmail-gdlr-core-column-20"><div class=3D"gma=
il-gdlr-core-pbf-column-content-margin gmail-gdlr-core-js"><div class=3D"gm=
ail-gdlr-core-pbf-column-content gmail-clearfix gmail-gdlr-core-js"><div cl=
ass=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-pbf-element"><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-text-box-=
item gmail-gdlr-core-item-pdlr gmail-gdlr-core-item-pdb gmail-gdlr-core-lef=
t-align"><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-text-box-item-content" style=3D"text=
-transform:none"><p>PES
 University, located in Bangalore, India is one of the country=E2=80=99s le=
ading
 teaching and research universities. The University is committed to=20
providing =E2=80=9Ceducation for the real world=E2=80=9D that inspires stud=
ents to=20
realize their potential.</p>
</div></div></div></div></div></div><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-pbf-colum=
n gmail-gdlr-core-column-20"><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-pbf-column-conte=
nt-margin gmail-gdlr-core-js"><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-pbf-column-cont=
ent gmail-clearfix gmail-gdlr-core-js"><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-pbf-el=
ement"><div class=3D"gmail-gdlr-core-text-box-item gmail-gdlr-core-item-pdl=
r gmail-gdlr-core-item-pdb gmail-gdlr-core-left-align"><div class=3D"gmail-=
gdlr-core-text-box-item-content" style=3D"text-transform:none"><p>Our stude=
nts graduate with the ability to adapt to an intellectually and technologic=
ally changing environment. </p></div></div></div></div></div></div></div></=
blockquote><div>=C2=A0&quot;Education for the real world&quot; and &quot;gr=
aduating with the ability to adapt to an intellectually [...] changing envi=
ronment&quot;. Reading between the lines, it seems to signal towards &quot;=
we help students secure jobs&quot;. Sure, it may be a biased reading, but m=
y bias comes from the countless lectures of the Pro-Chancellor, and the emp=
hasis is pretty much always placement records.</div><div><br></div><div>Man=
ipal University&#39;s mission statement:</div><blockquote class=3D"gmail_qu=
ote" style=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex;border-left:1px solid rgb(204,204,20=
4);padding-left:1ex"><ul><li>Be the most preferred choice of students, facu=
lty and industry</li><li>Be in the top 10 in every discipline of education<=
br> health sciences, engineering and management.</li></ul></blockquote><div=
>I roughly interpret this as &quot;our goal is to be liked and well-ranked&=
quot;. Talk about a measure becoming a target.</div><div><br></div><div>Let=
&#39;s go with institutes in India that are &quot;higher-ranked&quot;. Firs=
t is BITS Pilani&#39;s mission.</div><blockquote class=3D"gmail_quote" styl=
e=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex;border-left:1px solid rgb(204,204,204);paddin=
g-left:1ex"><div><div align=3D"justify"><p>BITS mission is to advance knowl=
edge and educate
 students in science, technology, and other areas of scholarship that=20
will best serve the nation and the world in the 21st century.</p></div><div=
 align=3D"justify"><p>The
 Institute is committed to generating, disseminating, and preserving=20
knowledge, and to working with others to bring this knowledge to bear on
 the world&#39;s great challenges. BITS is dedicated to providing its=20
students with an education that combines rigorous academic study and the
 excitement of discovery with the support and intellectual stimulation=20
of a diverse campus community. We seek to develop in each member of the=20
BITS community the ability and passion to work wisely, creatively, and=20
effectively for the betterment of humankind.</p></div></div></blockquote><d=
iv>No complaints with this one. Seems pretty good as a mission statement, e=
ven if really long-winded. BITS passes my heuristic.</div><div><br></div><d=
iv>I&#39;ll try two of the classic IIT&#39;s.</div><div><br></div><div>IIT =
Kharagpur:<blockquote class=3D"gmail_quote" style=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8=
ex;border-left:1px solid rgb(204,204,204);padding-left:1ex"><ul><li>To prov=
ide broad-based education, helping students hone their=20
professional skills and acquire the best-in-class capabilities in their=20
respective disciplines</li><li>To draw the best expertise in science, techn=
ology, management and
 law so as to  equip students with the skills to visualize, synthesize=20
and execute projects in these fields</li><li>To imbibe a spirit of entrepre=
neurship and innovation in its students</li><li>To undertake sponsored rese=
arch and provide consultancy services in industrial, educational and social=
ly relevant areas</li></ul></blockquote></div><div>Fails my heuristic witho=
ut a doubt. This mission statement belongs in a vocational school, not a pr=
emier institute. I probably hate this one the most out of all the ones I&#3=
9;ve read so far.<br></div><div><br></div><div>IIT Bombay:</div><blockquote=
 class=3D"gmail_quote" style=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex;border-left:1px so=
lid rgb(204,204,204);padding-left:1ex"><div><ul><li>To create an ambience i=
n which new ideas, research and=20
scholarship flourish, and from which the leaders and innovators of=20
tomorrow emerge.</li><li>To address problems faced by the nation and the wo=
rld through the talent we nurture and the research we do.</li><li>To
 provide an education that transforms students through rigorous=20
coursework and by providing an understanding of the needs of society and
 industry.</li><li>To collaborate with other academic and research institut=
es around the world to strengthen the education and research ecosystem.</li=
></ul></div></blockquote><div>I really like this one. I am not surprised th=
at among the engineering colleges in India, this one ranks the highest. Unf=
ortunately, here, it seems to me it is revered for the wrong reason.</div><=
div><br></div><div>The inconsistency between the two IIT&#39;s is interesti=
ng.</div><div><br></div><div>Now, let&#39;s see what the top ranked institu=
tes of the world say, for comparison.</div><div><br></div><div>MIT:</div><b=
lockquote class=3D"gmail_quote" style=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex;border-le=
ft:1px solid rgb(204,204,204);padding-left:1ex"><div><div class=3D"gmail-tl=
e-section__content">

                      <div class=3D"gmail-tle-section__description">
              <p>The mission of MIT is to advance knowledge and educate=20
students in science, technology, and other areas of scholarship that=20
will best serve the nation and the world in the 21st century.</p>

<p>The Institute is committed to generating, disseminating, and=20
preserving knowledge, and to working with others to bring this knowledge
 to bear on the world=E2=80=99s great challenges. MIT is dedicated to provi=
ding=20
its students with an education that combines rigorous academic study and
 the excitement of discovery with the support and intellectual=20
stimulation of a diverse campus community. We seek to develop in each=20
member of the MIT community the ability and passion to work wisely,=20
creatively, and effectively for the betterment of humankind.</p>
             </div>
         =20
                  </div></div></blockquote><div>Wait a second, this seems f=
amiliar... did BITS Pilani just copy MIT&#39;s homework? BITS, I&#39;m goin=
g to have to fail you for plagiarism. <i>Sigh.</i></div><div><br></div><div=
>Stanford school of engineering:</div><blockquote class=3D"gmail_quote" sty=
le=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex;border-left:1px solid rgb(204,204,204);paddi=
ng-left:1ex"><div><ul><li>Conduct curiosity-driven and problem-driven resea=
rch that=20
generates new knowledge and produces discoveries that provide the=20
foundations for future engineered systems</li><li>Deliver world-class, rese=
arch-based education to students and broad-based training to leaders in aca=
demia, industry and society</li><li>Drive technology transfer to Silicon Va=
lley and beyond with deeply=20
and broadly educated people and transformative ideas that will improve=20
our society and our world.</li></ul></div></blockquote><div><i></i></div><d=
iv>Carnegie Mellon University:</div><blockquote class=3D"gmail_quote" style=
=3D"margin:0px 0px 0px 0.8ex;border-left:1px solid rgb(204,204,204);padding=
-left:1ex"><div>
<p>To create a transformative educational experience for students=20
focused on deep disciplinary knowledge; problem solving; leadership,=20
communication, and interpersonal skills; and personal health and=20
well-being.</p>
<p>To cultivate a transformative university community committed to (a)=20
attracting and retaining diverse, world-class talent; (b) creating a=20
collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where=20
research, creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship can flourish; and
 (c) ensuring individuals can achieve their full potential.</p>
<p>To impact society in a transformative way =E2=80=94 regionally, national=
ly,=20
and globally =E2=80=94 by engaging with partners outside the traditional bo=
rders
 of the university campus.</p></div></blockquote><div>These are as expected=
, quite good. They represent the whole idea of &quot;building a community o=
f scholars for the advancement of knowledge and innovation&quot;. Something=
 that I feel Indian Institutions are not interested in. I do not advocate f=
or Indian institutes to imitate these other top institutions. But at least =
be interested in a system that pushes our society ahead?<br></div><div><div=
><i></i></div></div></div>
